My dream Head of Risking Compliance profile. 
I'd like to share some of my thoughts on what would be in my own opinion, based on my years of experience who an ideal Head of Risk Compliance should be.  In the mix of our recruitment process we have had quite a good number of candidates. 
The first major point is for the candidate to have a really good vision for how risk of compliance can be an enabler for the business, something that actually makes the business grow faster and simplify processes. Fundamentally, managing risks and compliance is the core of all operational practices. It's the ability to execute a number of rules, related to regulations, very effectively and professionally. 

Being a believer of strong approach machine and an efficient process driven workflow.  Risk management is the ability to understand the implications decisions that are being made and allow businesses,  being owners of the assets that we are talking about to make informed decisions.
Fundamentally, it's all about data, being able to collect the right amount of data, filter, analyze, and present it in ways that can be easily consumed in either text, graphs, infographics, etc. In essence, risk management is the whole workflow that allows that to occur. The workflow that allows the risk decisions to be made to match the risk threshold of the company.  This is essentially something that need to be done from the lowest level of the organization all the way to the top,  from individual on the ground all the way to the board, through the C-level executives and line managers who are the ultimate risk arbitrator in the whole scheme of things. 
Traditionally, risk has been a very negative thing because teams are allergic to it, nobody wants to own risk and nobody wants to really embrace it head on. It often becomes a big bureaucratic exercise, which is made worse in part lot of times by not being driven by reality sometimes, by a perception of the reality. People can't get information in a reliable time driven manner because the risk teams tend to be separate. It means they tend to live on a separate reality because they don't actually get real time data. 
Real data, in essence should be in real time, driven by the actual operational parts of where that data is created, which is fed in whole to a number of dashboards analytics that allows analysts to make good decisions. 
What is required rom a group security point of view, is to make this process really smooth. We need to create an environment where these are effectively implemented in teams, this enable the team to respond and make decisions faster, because they know the rules of the game and what is required of them at every point in time. They know how to get things done, from the simplest to the most complex.
They know the processes to go through and they allow, in way, the systems to work in a preconfigured automated mode without interference from the security group. 
That's what you want, a workflow where somebody wants to do something, the rules of engagement are not hard to find, they create a risk ticket, these are documented and go to the right person for risk acceptance, group security approves. The techops for example implements it all, making it a very smooth process. In our case, this is going to be powered by a bunch of scripts, but the smoothness of that needs to be very efficient. However, the compliance part is basically the ability to map the current rules and regulation that we have to review, from a government point of view. The big core is GDPR but we also have to be PCIA compliance for example. 
Fundamentally, GDPR  is viewed as a competitive advantage, we’ve gotten it right and we'll be better than our competitors. We will be able to demonstrate that we care about data and our customers magic moments and be able stream line a lot of the processes. A lot of times, the reason why compliance is hard, is because we are looking for inefficiencies within the system. We are basically looking at parts of the business that might not have a certain level of maturity, care, or focus. Sometimes, it's not that the team doesn't want to do something, they were simply not asked to do something, or it was just not part of the business requirement.
What I like about the GDPR? It puts customers data and the care of customers data, at the heart of what companies need to do. This could either be a massive compliance problem, it might as well drag the business or it could be an accelerator. Going back in the car analogy, there are lots of security features in cars, like brakes for example, and others that actually allow the car to go faster. That's what we want. We want the GDPR to be one of those features that actually allows the business to go faster, that allows us to integrate better with third parties, allow us to be much more efficient in how we create new projects. Allowing us to share data more effectively and more efficiently, internally and externally, doing so in more secure way. Obviously there is a lot of great things that comes out of it.
Finally, it will allow us to plan for failure, in a much more efficient way, because we know there'll be issue, the question is how we handle and how we process those issues.  For me, the Head of Risking Compliance is somebody that will thrive on this challenge, and also has to be quite technical, because a lot of these things are actually very technical. You need to be able to go down to the engineer level and be able to communicate with them and drive you points across.

One of the reasons why in my head, a perfect candidate has programming experience and knows how to program. This could be python, it could be excel or other things, having coding experience in, javascript or scala, would be more interesting. When somebody knows a little how to program, it means they are able to be free from the data. They are able to look at a bit of data and go I can automate this, I can program that, and I can visualize this, and I can visualize that. And that's why programming makes the difference. It also a thinking that a programmer tends to have, with the ability to take a very complex problem and break it into small little problems, and solve them in sequence, and put them together again, which is how we program.
In a nutshell, that's the kind of my ideal candidate; the interesting challenge now, is how to create challenges that allow these properties and this thinking to come out. We need to create a fair recruitment process that allows the perfect candidate to shine and to be really obvious why that individual is the right one.
One more thing on the Head of Risking Compliance, this individual should have a very high focus on details and process, and in law. Basically, this needs to be somebody that is a geek that enjoys reading law documents. Somebody that is a definition of a good book and knows about GDPR. That actually finds it funny and actually enjoys the particularities of the law, and the idea of going to attend and participate in articles, meetings from GDPR, something they will enthusiastically be looking forward to. And would love to be an active participant in the changing and interacting with those laws. Basically, it has to be a geek for law and rules, the same way that some of our members are geeks for technology and security.

